# Fake-Ad-Click-Detection-By-Idenitfying-Anomalies

Click Fraud is a technique of deceitfully increasing the number of clicks on a pay-per-click ad. There are two common driving factors for click fraud; one is an attempt by the advertisers to sabotage their competitors by increasing their costs and exhausting their budget caps early. Second is the practice in which Ad publishers try to generate more revenue for themselves by clicking on the ads displayed on their site. The aim of this research is to predict whether a publisher is fraud by analyzing the patterns in data using various features provided. This is achievable by measuring user click counts, flagging IP addresses that produce many clicks. Identifying key mobile agents used or specific country and ip combinations can be used for fraudulent clicks detection. Prediction of fraud publishers is performed by using various classification and machine learning models. 

## DATASET : 
The data set for this analysis was granted by LARC SMU-CMU Singapore Management University provided by BuzzCity
https://larc.smu.edu.sg/buzzcity-mobile-advertisement-dataset
R. J. Oentaryo, E.-P. Lim, M. Finegold, D. Lo, F.-D. Zhu, C. Phua, E.-Y. Cheu, G.-E. Yap, K. Sim, M. N. Nguyen, K. Perera, B. Neupane, M. Faisal, Z.-Y. Aung, W. L. Woon, W. Chen, D. Patel, and D. Berrar, "Detecting click fraud in online advertising: A data mining approach," Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol. 15, pp. 99-140, 2014.



## INTRODUCTION :
Pay-per-click model is suffering from tremendous fraud issues. In many cases, the clickers click on advertisements without having actual interest in the ad’s link. This enables them earn extra money for depleting the advertiser’s budget. Click fraud refers to all such fraudulent means used for generating more clicks without being recognized by the search engine [1].
Loss estimation of Mobile app advertisers have doubled compared to 2017 with e-commerce the hardest hit category [14]. E-commerce accounted for 40% of the total installations rejected by Adjust in the 2018 report, up from 20% in 2017. The games category was last year's leader with 35%, but declined to 30% this year. A recent study from Juniper Research has forecasted that advertisers will lose around $42 billion of ad spend globally this year to deceitful activities committed via online, mobile and in-app advertising. This is a 21% increase from the $35 billion lost to advertising fraud in 2018. This growth will be driven by increasingly sophisticated techniques being implemented by fraudsters [15].
The frauds fall under two main categories:
(1) Bot-driven frauds employ bot networks or paid users to initiate fake ad impressions and clicks [2]
(2) Placement frauds manipulate visual layouts of ads to trigger ad impressions and unintentional clicks from real users (47% of user clicks are reportedly accidental [3])
Traditional search advertising click fraud was mainly triggered by an automated program. This kind of click fraud has evident characteristics, such as high traffic within a short time, single access mode, repetitive, etc. We can filter out this kind of click fraud through online detection rules [4].
A click farm is a form of click fraud, where the click fraudster hires large groups of workers to click on paid advertising links. The workers click the links, surf the target website for a certain amount of time and in some cases they also sign up for newsletters before moving to another link. In such cases, the workers can earn huge amount of money by clicking on enough ads per day to hit their target. This gives them an alternative source of income. It is extremely troublesome for an automated channel to detect such simulated traffic as fake as the user behavior appears the same as that of a genuine user [5].
The phrase ‘invalid clicks’ is similar to click fraud, however, in addition to clicks that are intentionally fraudulent, we also consider some accidental clicks which are generated by genuine user clicks as invalid clicks. Invalid clicks can be troublesome for advertisers. Large advertising networks analyze and validate clicks on behalf of the advertiser.  In the event of detection of such invalid clicks, the networks flag such records and remove them from payments and reports [6].
The aim of this project is to examine various machine-learning algorithms for Click Fraud Detection.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II provides a background of the relevant work in this domain. In Section III, CRISP-DM approach is discussed as the research plan. Section IV discusses the approach taken for detecting Click Fraud and related work are present. This section is sub divided into dataset description, exploratory data analysis, feature extraction, steps taken to handle the dataset and preprocessing is discussed. Section V talks about the various algorithms finalized for analysis, their working and how it models our dataset. Evaluation methods such as recall, precision, accuracy and auc-roc are covered in Section VI which is used to compare and contrast between the different models used for prediction. Section VII concludes the results and understanding of the algorithm used to identify anomalies and classify publishers into real or fraud would be analyzed and identified. Finally, the paper concludes with references.
